Athletes face elevated physical and physiological demands, increasing their risk of injury while also affecting individual careers and team performance. Though there have been advances in sports science, wearable technologies, and load monitoring systems, predicting injuries remains a major challenge due to the complex and dynamic nature of their risk factors. This project sought to investigate those challenges by establishing a machine learning-based injury risk prediction system for athletic players, dialling in on a robust set of player-level characteristics while solving issues including data leakage, variability and model overfitting.

The machine learning models Decision Trees, Random Forests and K-Means Clustering were trained using a pre-processed and balanced dataset and produced an injury risk level. Overall, the Random Forest Classifier was selected as the primary model for injury risk prediction, given its accuracy and generalisability. 

A Streamlit-based web application was developed to operationalise the model, which enabled coaches and medical staff to input player data and receive real-time injury risk assessments, categorised on a scale of Low, Medium, or High.
To facilitate proactive injury management, interactive Power BI dashboards were developed to conceptualise key insights (e.g. fatigue trends, ACL risk scores, and player clustering profiles). These provide actionable intelligence to guide personalised training and recovery interventions.
 Overall, the project showcases how placing machine learning with practical visualisation tools can facilitate early injury risk recognition and informed decision-making, ultimately supporting athlete health and enhancing team performance.
